### Known Myths

* Enabling [Game Mode](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/4028293/windows-using-game-mode-on-your-pc) will cause stuttering and performance problems - No, not anymore. MS changed a lot since Windows Build 1803+. This was finally fixed and the application should now get the resource it needs e.g. for encoding (OBS Studio). If there are game related issue then it's not caused by an enabled Game Mode. The mode indeed checks if the game is supported or not. On Laptop systems game mode will not work no matter if you set it to on or off, this is by design and not a bug.
* Disable Drive Indexing (Windows Search) should be turned off. Myth, because [reading I/O doesn't decrease your SSD lifespan](http://techreport.com/review/27909/the-ssd-endurance-experiment-theyre-all-dead) - writing on it does! However if you don't like Windows own Search you could use [Void's Everything](https://www.voidtools.com/downloads/).
* Configure “Defragment and Optimize your device” - useless, because Windows since 8+ can handle it on his own, it detects if you're on SSD or HDD and defrag it or not, disabling the service schedule does nothing because it runs anyway (for several other operations).
* Set your SATA controller to AHCI mode for Solid State Drives SSD - This is not necessary, Windows detects it automatically based on your BIOS/UEFI settings.
* [Pagefile Managing](https://www.onmsft.com/news/microsoft-educates-insiders-windows-10-handles-memory), disable it because it writes stuff on your SSD - Yes it writes important things on the SSD but some applications and games might crash if you entirely disable it. Instead I recommend to set it to a fixed size the math here would be: Your physically installed RAM x 1.5.
* Disabling Windows own restore Point feature - It's more up to you, this can be important in case shit happened but it does not affect the performance because Windows only creates automatic restore points whenever you install/uninstall prigrams which supporting this function, manually or on a schedule which checks if you're CPU is busy right now (over 45%).
* Disable Hibernate - It's also up to everyone to use it or not, in you you want to turn it off: powercfg -h off
* Disable SuperFetch - Not necessary because since Windows 8 it's detected by Windows. It's running but it does nothing when you're on a SSD. You can check it's state via `fsutil behavior query DisableDeleteNotify` which should be 0. This means TRIM is enabled.
* [NIC System.ini IRQ Tweak](https://www.speedguide.net/articles/systemini-irq-tweak-168)
* [System Responsiveness](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ms684247.aspx). It doesn't need to be tweaked.
* Disabling C states in BIOS. As for the SSD, the amount of writes is reduced without hibernation. When a computer hibernates, the contents of the RAM is dumped to the hibernate file on the C drive, which is the SSD in this case. Since SSDs have a finite amount of writes and there can be a lot of stuff in the RAM, you can see how this is a problem. The contents of RAM are being paged to the C drive constantly, anyways. The amount of extra SSD I/O due to hibernation is trivial compared to loading a game with let's say 20GB of textures and levels.
* Disabling Windows animations - This is not helpful at all, since all animations are GPU accelerated. A gaming machine should have a graphics card capable of running them without any problem Windows 10 requires a "powerful" enough GPU system.
* Disable High Precision Event Timer (HPET) is not needed after Windows April Update (Build 1803) you can check the current status via `bcdedit /enum`.
* Encrypting the OS partition (whole OS) affects gaming performance - This is incorrect, all modern hardware supports AES-256 via hardware level which means it will not affect your gaming performance, howver the loading times _could be a bit slower_ because the backend VeraCrypt/TrueCrypt have to decode the data before your game reads it.
* [Disable Nagle’s Algorithm](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nagle%27s_algorithm) - This is not needed, [Windows 10 already chooses the best algorithm](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/214397/design-issues-sending-small-data-segments-over-tcp-with-winsock)  based what your network driver supports. Which means even if you change something in the registry which is not supported by the OS/Driver you won't get any benefit out of it.
* Turn on ReadyBoost - Pagefile on SSD (especially on other partition than game) definitely outperforms ReadyBoost, the service will be unavailable on systems with SSD. If it's there than you use an outdated OS (or it's a bug).
* CPU core affinity performance/fps fixes - [See here](https://old.reddit.com/r/starcitizen/comments/5z1ndx/cpu_core_affinity_performancefps_fix/deupoqf/) for an explanation.
